# PixelLink: Detecting Scene Text via Instance Segmentation

## Summary

    This paper is really simple to understand and intutive, though with a lot of caveats which can be improved. Overall opens up the text detection world to Semantic Segmentation which is an alternative to bounding box regression.
    
## Abstract

    Semantic Segmentation over Bounding Box Regression
    Instance Segmentation for close text bbox
    Advantages - Requires less data, fewer training iterations, better results
    
## INTRODUCTION

    General models predict two things
    
    1 Bounding box co-ordinates using regression
    2 Probability of that bounding box being text or non-text

    Location regression is not the only way to find Bounding Box we can use segmentation
    
    Pixel Link predicts links for each pixel to its 8 adjacent pixels and is able to do instance segmentation by 
    building a graph of these links and finding connected components.

## Related Work

### Semantic & Instance Segmentation

    Discusses some of the recent advances in semantic and instance segmentation like Mask R-CNN, Faster R-CNN   

### Segmentation-based Text Detection

    Discusses papers , mentioned in the paper, and tells their weakness that they suffer from time-consuming post-processing steps

### Regression-based Text Detection

    Discusses Regression Based papers which use anchor boxes, and defines the standard dataset to be IC13, IC15 for text-detection
    
## Detecting Text via Instance Segmentation

### Network Architecture

    They use Pre-trained VGG16 Model with minor modifications
    
### Linking Pixels Together

    Link is predicted for each pixel with its adjacent neighbours. So two adjacent pixels are connected if either of the edges are positive.
    Positive Segmentation and Positive Link can be thresholded using two Hyper-parameters.
    
### Extraction of Bounding Boxes

    There is actually no need for finding bounding boxes, but as the datasets have bounding boxes and for evaluation we need IOU, they find the minRectArea open-cv rectangle.

#### Post Filtering After Segmentation

    If the width of the bounding box is less than 99th percentile of the width on the training data then boxes with width less than that are removed from predicition. Same goes for height.
    
## Optimisation

### Ground Truth Calculation

    The Entire bounding Box is labelled as positive. Overlapping pixels are labelled as negative.
    
### Loss Function

    Loss = 2*(Loss on Pixels) + Loss on Links as calculating positive pixels in more important
    
    Loss on Pixels - Each bounding box is weighted inversely proportional to its area. Hard-Negative Mining is used so the total segmentation loss is loss on positive pixels + Loss on R*#(positive pixels) of background having decreasing order of loss
    Loss in Links - Each link is inversely weighted to the area of the box it belongs to and also the positive pixels are inversely weighted to their population as are the negative pixels.
    
### Data Augmentation

    Extensive Data Augmentation is done by rotation, random crops and changing the aspect ratio by resizing to 512*512.
    Some boxes are ignored this way which have less than 20% area remaining inside the crops.
    The weight for these ignored boxes are set to 0.
    
## Experiments

### Benchmark Data-sets - 
    
    Challenge 4 of IC15
    IC13
    MSRA-TD500(TD500) - English and Chinese
    
### Implementation Details -

    Clearly Mentioned int he paper
    
### Detection Oriented Text in IC15 - 

    Trained from scratch on IC15 without pre-training. Other details are clearly mentioned in the paper.
    
### Detecting Long Text in TD500

    Pre-trained on IC15 and the fine-tunes on TD500 + HUST-TR400 Dataset. EAST works really bad on this dataset because the text-boxes have very large aspect ratio. SegLink and PixelLink don't have any dependencies on aspect ratio.
    
### Detecting horizontal text in IC13

    Pre-Trained on IC15 and fine-tuned on IC13, TD500 and TR400. Multiscale is emphasised which gives an icrease of 4-5 percent F-score.
    
## Analysis and Discussion
    
### Advantages of Pixel-Link

    Requires Much less data. They claim predicting pixels as positive or negative is easier than predicting bounding boxes.
    
### Model Analysis

    Ablation Studies are done and clearly mentioned in the paper